[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Scope is one of the
most important inventions in programming.
We got it from ALGOL 60.
Almost all modern languages have
block scope, JavaScript doesn't.
JavaScript only has functions scope,
which turns out it's not a bad thing.
That function scope is sufficient for
writing good programs.
The problem is that most programmers who
are writing in JavaScript were trained
in Java or C or other C-ish languages,
and expected to have block scope.
And the rules about where you declare
variables are different in block scope
languages versus function scope languages.
And that confusion can cause errors.
And this is because of the crazy
way that the var statement works.
We'll look more at var this afternoon.
So because of this craziness, I recommend
declare all of your variables at the top
of the function because that is where
JavaScript actually will declare them.
And so if you put your declarations there,
that increases the likelihood that who is
ever reading your program will correctly
understand what the program is
doing.
>> Douglas Crockford: I find the place
that gets people the most confused is
in the induction variable of the for
statement.
They really want to save our I there.
And I recommend no,
don't even do it there.
Move the bar I to the top of the function.
And they get really upset, and
they start screaming and they say, but
that's not how you write it in Java.
And I say,
write in the language you're writing in.
That Java is a different language.
They look similar but
it's a different language with
a different set of bad parts.
In JavaScript,
you don't wanna be doing that because it
doesn't do what you imagine it does.
In EX6, which was published in June of
this year by the ECMA General Assembly.
There's now a let statement in JavaScript
which is now starting to find its
way into implementations and when that
becomes totally ubiquitous, I will
recommend stop using var, use let from now
on because let will respect block scope.
Unless your code has to run on IE 6
because let is a syntax error on IE 6 and
your code won't ever run or
in IE 7 or on IE 8 or
IE 9 or IE 10 or IE 11, but
if you have to run on Edge 2 or
whatever the next one is gonna be called.
Yeah.
Let.
Otherwise,
keep using var.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Does the current
Edge allow let?
>> Douglas Crockford: I don't know.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: It might.
I don't know.
>> Speaker 2: We'll all be good in 2016,
because Microsoft's dropping support
for all those IE browsers.
>> Douglas Crockford: I know your
customers will be using these browsers.
Yeah.
Microsoft said we're not supporting you
guys anymore but that doesn't mean
that the world's gonna stop using it.
So we're gonna be stuck with IE for
a while longer, I'm afraid.
So global variables are evil in all
languages they caused coupling of things,
and accidental collisions and
security hazards and all sorts of badness.
And unfortunately,
in the browser the use of global variables
is required because there is no kind
of linkage mechanism that allows one
compilation unit to find another.
They just all share a common
global space which is crazy.
So because of that I recommend in
browser applications use as few global
variables as possible and when you do,
name them all in uppercase because you
want them to really stand out as something
that is dangerous and important.
JavaScript has a new prefix that was
modeled after the C++ and Java new prefix.
I don't recommend using it ever but
because one of the hazards with it is that
if you forget to put the new prefix on
the front of a constructor function,
instead of creating a new object
it will clobber global variables.
And happen to have the same names
as the instance variables you're
trying to initialize which is awful, and
there's no run time warning no
compile time warning it's just awful.
So because of that, we have a convention
in JavaScript that constructor functions
should be named with InitialCaps and
nothing else should ever
be named with InitialCaps.
This is the only clue we have as
to what requires a new prefix and
what doesn't.
>> Douglas Crockford: This is
something which is allowed in JavaScript
but it doesn't mean what people expect.
So this approach appears
to do with it does,
it's gonna create two variables a and
b and initialize them both to 0.
What it does instead is,
it initializes b to 0 and
creates a which also become 0, but
this one will not be a locally
scoped variable,
this one will be a global variable.
One of the big design errors in JavaScript
is, if you do not explicitly declare
a variable in a function JavaScript
assumes that you intended for it to be
a global variable which is something that
was done intentionally to make it easier
for the beginners because often they
didn't know what variables were at all.
But it's makes it much harder for
you because if you're not really careful,
any of your variables could
turn into global variables where
they could easily get stepped on.
So again, recommend which one of these
you mean and write that instead.
Write in a way that-
>> Speaker 2: Is it the same way you can
declare multiple variables on
a range var a comma b comma c?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah
>> Speaker 2: Does b and c all become
global valuables if you do that?
>> Douglas Crockford: No,
in this kind of form you're okay.
The problem is if you
assignment to do that.
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
okay.
>> Douglas Crockford: So, write in a way
that clearly communicates your intent.
>> Douglas Crockford: This is another one
of Thompson's, so
the the b language was modeled after BCPL,
which was a brilliant little language.
BCPL was the first curly brace language.
And BCPL got its if statement right,
that the parens around
the condition were optional.
And the curly braces around
the consequence were required.
Thompson reversed that.
Thompson made the parents around
the condition required and
the curly braces around
the consequence optional.
Because that looked more like Fortran
which was more in the style of the day.
So as result, this statement appears
to do with this one does but
actually does with this one does,
that it's going to call c unconditionally.
Or someone reading the statement
could easily think that c
is only gonna be called conditionally,
that's a bug.
And so because of this, I recommend always
put the curly braces in every time,
on every if, on every else,
on every while, on ever for,
every time put the curly braces in.
It's just two characters and it's done.
And what that does is for very low cost,
it makes your program much more resilient,
that means that someone else is gonna
come in and add to your if statement.
They're gonna have a much greater
likelihood of being able to do
that without introducing her into it
which is a really good thing and if you
are leaving the curly braces out, you
are setting your coworkers up for failure.
Which is inexcusable and unprofessional.
So always put them in, and
I hear from people all the time but
you have to go so hard,
it's just two characters.
It's just two lousy characters and
they make your program so much better.
That as our processes become more agile,
our coding must be more resilient.
Cuz our programs are never finished,
right?
They're always going to be
constant states of improvement and
we need to code that way.
Code our programs so that they
are more easily improved over time.